---
path: "/blog/little-thoughts-about-political-awareness"
date: "2020-09-16"
title: "Little Thoughts about Political Awareness" 
author: "Mengru Fu"
updated_on: "2020-10-04"
featuredImage: "/american_politics.jpg"
tags: "Politics"
---

I wrote this down in my blog (probably the most serious blog post so far #:monkey_face:) because I would like to share some of my own experiences and learnings as an immigrant who might not know much about American Politics, and help people like me to fight through similar struggles of raising their political awareness.  

<em>What is politics? What does it mean of being political? How important is it to raise political awareness?</em> 

Mahatma Gandhi once described the Seven Social Sins as: "Wealth without work. Pleasure without conscience. Knowledge without character. Commerce without morality. Science without humanity. Worship without sacrifice. Politics without principle." My understanding of the seventh sin is before talking about any politics, it is essential to construct a set of principles to define and picture yourself politically. If there is no principle set in your mind, there is nothing you can depend on to give your political opinions. As an immigrant, I used to define myself as a non-political person because I tended to see a lot of the grey middle ground in politics and I often ended up getting lost in picking a side among the polarized political opinions. However, I gradually learned that politics is a complex topic, and it is not just about government and policies, but instead, almost everything in daily life can be turned into political discussions, and it's nearly impossible to avoid being political. Indeed, being politically ignorant is also a form of being political, by which means you just choose to give up your own rights by keeping silent and to be led by others. Everyone has the desire to be heard, and so am I, but the barrier to raise my political awareness is the lack of fundamental knowledge about politics and the struggles to find proper wordings to justify and interpret my political opinions. Luckily, political awareness is not innate and it can be developed through self-education and practice over time.  

### A Long Path I Took to Raise Political Awareness

As a Chinese Chinese, I had little interest in learning politics in my own country, although political science is a required course for all students in China and people do register to vote for regional representatives, but as we all know, it's a one-party regime established country, and in my eyes, my voting would barely make any changes to who would be the next president. When I turned 18, I moved to Los Angeles and lived in the US since then, and therefore, I barely had any chance to vote during my teenage years living in China. Politics was just a required course subject to me, and I was suspicious about knowing politics would make any real changes in my life. The other part of me was incapable of fully understanding some concrete concepts about political awareness, for example, "diversity", because unlike the US, China is not a nation of immigrants and almost everyone living around me by then was Chinese. It was substantially difficult for me to put my foot in it and fight for ratification of equal rights among races and colors without individual living context around me, and I was so naive that I even questioned if there were wording conflicts between the concept of "Black Lives Matter" and "Equal Rights" among all races and colors. #:cold_sweat: However, the most important principle that I did learn in school is that equal rights should be shared among people regardless of their biological or social background, and as a girl, I'm very lucky that my parents have always been encouraging and supporting me to pursue anything I want as much as boys do -- which can be read as "Gender Equality", the very first and crucial political awareness raised in my mind. 

When I first came to the US for college in 2011, it was the first time that I learned the word "DEI" (Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion), which indicates in American society, each individual is unique in terms of race, color, religion, gender, and sexual orientation. By that time, I made friends with different backgrounds and I built my fundamental understanding that everyone should be treated equally regardless of their differences. Somehow I barely discussed politics openly with my American friends, and my reflection on this is politics by itself might be a sensitive topic to talk about at any time and as a foreigner, it was difficult for me to build my political view without raising enough awareness with a lack of understanding on American history and society. During hanging out with my American friends, I learned the word "Fobby" (fresh-off-boat) for the first time and we made jokes about me being fobby drinking boba all the time -- I mean "we" not "they" because I never took it offensively and felt it was just funny jokes made between friends. My reflection on this is that I had always been setting myself in a position to embrace the integrity among friends, and to stay on the bright side when facing cultural shocks, to the extent that I was not politically sensitive to myself to address my own little feelings.  

What made me think about raising political awareness is a short-lived relationship which ended because the person I dated with couldn't trust me and felt embarrassed introducing me to his friends due to my political ignorance. Without fully understanding the behind-the-scenes meaning of "Black Lives Matter" (BLM), I once made bad jokes in front of him by saying something which now sounds super disrespectful as "Asian Lives Matter", "White Lives Matter", "All Lives Matter" etc. What I originally meant is not intended to hurt anyone, but was just trying to express my fundamental belief that everyone should be treated equally regardless of their races, colors, religions, genders, or sexual orientations without overemphasizing and differentiating between who's the majority and who's the minority, but I realized soon that these are quite offensive and disrespectful words and made people feel uncomfortable. I didn't put my feet in others' shoes learning about all the miserable experiences of how black/colored people had been treated unfairly for centuries, and people are using BLM to justify for them to be treated equally against systemic racial discrimination in American society. I had a hard time digesting the learned fact that the person I fell in love with could not trust me enough to open up a political conversation with me, and it was a big hit to my self-esteem as if I was a savage person who lacks empathy for others. I was struggling and blaming myself for a long time because it's not anyone's responsibility but mine to educate myself on this, but I didn't do it properly. 

There had been hard lessons that I learned, for being politically ignorant for myself and others in both ways, and it came a long way to set my mind to raise my political awareness. I know it won't be easy to build political awareness from the ground up, but I would keep learning it since I need and want to make this change internally to better interpret my caring and empathy about others and the community that I live in. 


### Get Started with Small Steps
Here comes to my actions. I have completed my first step by watching the crash course on [Political Science 101](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL4sGpBHlQIiuf7FXUuANaRFbhEjpExywP) on YouTube. I highly recommend watching the whole series for beginners who do not have any prior knowledge on political concepts, and I call it my Political Science 101 because it helps me understand fundamental but crucial concepts on political topics, such as how American government works, including political parties, separations of power, constitution laws, civil rights, declaration of independence, immigration and discrimination, etc.

Currently, I'm learning American History by watching [US History Lessons](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLbl_9QJosR54t0XZSXQIYzmuRQ2r0xc4T) by Dr.Gardiner on YouTube, which I believe is also a good starting point to learn the making of Americans and the historical pattern of how American society derives. I started my learnings on American Revolution, Bill of Rights, and Civil Wars, so far I enjoy his subtle narration on American history, and I hope this will help me build a root understanding of the US History and have a well-rounded reflection on the present US society to better shape the future. 

The other thing that I keep doing recently is to check out Twitter daily, and I feel it's quite useful to learn from Trending News to keep an eye on what's happening in the US and read comments under popular tweets to learn about different opinions and voices about politics. Inspired by a Netflix documentary that I recently watched "The Social Dilemma", I explicitly made myself to follow users who have different opinions than I do, in order to view and think critically from both sides. 

Some random books / movies that I read / watched that I would recommend: 

An interesting book that I read recently is named "Born A Crime", an autobiography book written by my favorite comedian Trevor Noah, and it helped me learn the Apartheid that he's experienced during his early childhood life in South Africa as a colored person. I'm impressed by his strong heart and broad mind of identifying himself in a community surrounded by Apartheid. I love his narration because Trevor is so talented at interpreting some hard facts in a humorous way that made people laugh and think out loud at the same time. Life can always be challenging and unfair, but he knows exactly how to digest hard feelings inside, while still keeping a positive mind and a kind heart in embracing all the encounterings that came into his life, to love, to learn, and to grow.   

A great movie that I recently watched is named "On the Basis of Sex", which is based on a true story of Ruth Bader Ginsburg (RBG) fought for gender equal rights at her early career. It was inspiring to learn how hard RBG had been trying to stand out among the male-dominated legal professionals, and she was so passionate about her career and tried so hard to make a radical social change by winning a case of allowing tax deduction for the nursing care that a single man was getting to take care of his old mother. RBG is a true legal hero, and she made me believe that the social justice is not granted but earned, and people should never give up their rights of making their voices heard.  


I'm trying to take baby steps at a time to educate myself and to be selective on materials to watch and learn with the hope to build enough political awareness one day. I know change doesn't happen overnight, but I'm being determined and optimistic (as always) to learn and grow to be a better version of myself. 