---
path: "/blog/post-five"
date: "2020-10-13"
title: "A Glimpse into the Covid-19 Pandemic" 
author: "Mengru Fu"
updated_on: "2020-10-13"
featuredImage: "/covid.jpg"
tags: "Health"
---

Today when I first created this blog is during the 32nd week that we have been self-quarantined due to the Covid-19 Pandemic, and I don't know how many more weeks we have to stay self-isolated like this, maybe till the day when the vaccines finally come out in some undefined future. Living the quarantine life for seven months, I enjoy the privilege of working from home, since I could spare more time doing things I like, but meanwhile, I constantly feel upset about the continuously accumulated Covid-19 case volume reaching nearly eight million in October, along with tremendous public health risk created and potential economic recession coming on the way. Two weeks ago, President Trump himself has also been diagnosed positive with Covid-19, but he kept telling people not to worry too much about the coronavirus, and he deliberately mitigated the severity of the coronavirus as his play-down strategy not to cause "unnecessary" public anxiety, which turns out to be another foolish "Trump Trap" and is completely misleading to the public. Covid-19 is way more severe than it sounds like, but I have a strong belief that we can fight through this pandemic with coherent national effort and coordinated efforts beyond single personnel, communities, and states to adopt a uniform approach to social distancing. However, what makes me frustrated is seeing not just the national failure starting at the top but a massive scale of overconfidence among civilians who are still jeopardizing the compliance with social distancing and conjugating in the public area without their masks on. It is worrying to have a divided nation with a certain group of people maintaining high compliance of conducting social distancing measures, while with the other group of people going on protests fueled with a crisis for individual democracy and freedom against self-quarantine, ignoring the cruel fact that hundreds of people are dying every day because of the coronavirus within this country.  


### How Different Countries Tackle Covid-19
The Covid-19 pandemic has hit almost all the major countries in the world over the past few months, and each country has implemented different strategies to tackle it. Despite being the first place to be hit by Covid-19, China has managed to tackle the disease in a national scale within three months. The federal government has enforced mandatory lockdowns and self-quarantine rules within the country to contain the virus spread. South Korea also made a rapid response by implementing drive-through diagnostic testing and mandatory contact tracing. US has enforced travel restrictions like all the other countries did, and so far there are at least 30 states with stay-at-home orders in place, which is great, but there are no strong enforcement policies that have been placed to make the order effective due to the high surveillance cost. Despite ample warnings from other countries, the US was still far from being prepared and is still struggling to have the coronavirus under control after seven months. I'm curious to dig why it is so challenging for the US to take effective actions to contain the virus spread, because it seems to me there are various options / actions available, such as enforcing a national mask-wearing and social-distancing rules, providing adequate testing facilities to the public, tracing contacts and notifying affected personnel, or placing federal fund for Covid-19 medical cost coverage etc. Given the fact that the US is one of the world's most powerful nations with ample resources and advanced scientific technology, it is unbelievable that the nation shows so much more fragility and controversy than any other countries in handling this pandemic situation. Besides Trump Administration's failures to address the pandemic at the federal level, what might be some other deep-rooted dysfunctions that make this nation lose the war on Covid-19? 


### US Healthcare System
The first thing that came up to my mind is US healthcare system. 